Pretty cool, I'm using Skypack,
I don't know if you've used Skypack.
But you can just go to Skypack and
look for skypack.dev.
You can look for whatever package
you want, somebody named a package,
I don't know, like,
>> Gulp-babel is the one I had to look up.
>> Gulp-babel?
>> Yep.
>> Okay, bingo, babel, yeah.
So you can get gulp-babel here and
you could just import it into your
JavaScript as a module right here, and
it tries to modulefy whatever it can.
I think that's sort of a tough science
with all this legacy-required code.
But if you're writing a Node app,
you could kind of require it from the CDN.
Again, your banking software
probably can't just import it
from [LAUGH] an untrusted CDN.
But I tell you what, it's really great for
prototyping out an idea
very quickly to see if it's something
you wanna even get started on.
So, a pretty awesome way to do it.
So, details-utils.
I kinda just found it, or
came out I think this year, so,
pretty cool and I plan on using
it kinda more going forward.
I know what you're saying,
we just added some accessibility features.
Wouldn't it be great to have
a bundle of premade accessible
components that I could style on my
own without having to install all
of god's earth just to make
some tabs on my website?
Yeah, that would be cool,
that's the goal, that's the utopia,
we just have things,
[LAUGH] I just wanna have things.
Generic-components by Pascal Schilp is
a really cool library I came across,
and it's maybe one of my favorite
kind of collection of Web Components.
This isn't really a design system,
it's just a collection, a few components.
And it has kind of the standards,
the hits, it has accordion, it looks ugly.
But you can bring your own style to it,
if you're doing whatever,
tailwind or whatever, and the code here,
that's maybe super hard to read.
Let's go over to my example cuz we
can read this code, for my tabs.
The code here is pretty awesome,
generic-tabs,
we'll give a label to the group.
That sort of depends on your situation,
but
we have a button and
we're gonna slot that into the tab slot,
that's named tabs, right, or named slots.
Again, I don't use this feature that much
but in tabs, you have buttons and panels,
right, you have tabs and panels.
And so he has two slots,
an about and a contact.
And then you have a panel and
then you have another panel,
and you can slot stuff
into the right slot.
And then you get features like,
you get a tabs control with
just writing HTML basically,
writing normalish HTML.
I even committed like a patch to this,
what if you didn't want buttons?
Because, let's say that JavaScript
fails or whatever again,
we're talking progressive enhancement.
Or let's say I wanted to
turn off tabs at some point.
What if you wanted
progressive enhancement?
Well, you could just have normal content,
[SOUND] and
then it just [SOUND] rolls up
into some kind of tab structure.
Interesting to think about, and
that's kind of an idea me and
a group of people,
called the Tab Vendors, whatever.
The Tab Vendors were a part of Open UI,
open-ui, were part of Open UI.
And Open UI is a group of,
let's call them component enthusiast,
it's just a community group.
We can't actually propose anything for
legal reasons,
but we're a group of component
enthusiast from browsers,
from spec authors,
from ARIA accessibility experts,
CSS spec writers, and
normal podcast hosts like me.
We all come together, and
we talk about components.
And we're kind of using this
this big component matrix,
we surveyed something like
18 different design system.
And try to find the most common
components across design systems.
Well, if you look at,
number five is tabs, right?
So tabs is one of the fifth most
common element behind button and
menu and tooltip and a checkbox,
fifth most common control.
So we've been experimenting,
over here in spicy-sections,
we're going to spicy-sections.
And we sort of realized,
if you have tabs and
you have that well structured content,
this is just the idea.
This isn't something coming out tomorrow,
but if you have that well structured
content, you can make tabs, but
you know what else you can make?
An accordion, you can make a vertical
tabs, you could make an accordion where
only one panel shows at a time or
they can all open close, stuff like that.
Maybe, I don't know, maybe even
a carousel, does that have a tabs?
Well, we're looking into it,
we're trying to figure this out and
just see what is going on.
Just see if there's a way to a express
control that fits with everything.
And so here's sort of the canonical demo,
we'll start in the mobile viewport,
you have an accordion, right?
And then in the medium viewport,
you're gonna get normal content.
Just like that weird tablet viewport
where you don't know what to
do where an accordion
is too much collapse.
And you don't have enough room for
tabs or, it's a weird place for
websites, it's like the teenage years for
websites.
And then you go to all the way out and
then it turns into a tabs control.
And so this is just an idea
we've been experimenting with.
There's a few other demos
that I could show you.
But it's just kind of an idea we're
experimenting with in kinda seeing if this
is maybe a pathway forward for
tabs like element native in the browser.
So, kinda cool, don't know,
it may rebrand to panel set soon,
so keep an eye out for that.
Not sure if that's the official name, but
that's just sort of something we've kind
of been riffing on in terms of this.
Yes, we have a question.
>> On Shop Talk, you and
Chris mentioned doing a circular menu,
was that tabs as well?
>> Like a radio?
Yeah, that would be tabs.
I mean, if you think about video
games,often have these radial menus,
you go into the menu and you,
go to grenades or something.
[LAUGH] I don't know, or
say this voice line or something,
there's these kind of radial menus.
And then you'd choose an option and
then it drills you down or
shows you content from within that option,
are those just tabs?
The old Xbox 360 UI that had these like
vertical blades, [LAUGH] is that tabs?
It might be tabs, and so
I think as we've kind of
investigated tabs, it's a long story.
But there may be a point where you
graduate from the standard tabs,
and you have to make your own custom tabs.
I think my favorite one was where
one of the tabs was a phone number.
And you could click it and call somebody's
grandma or something like that.
I think it was like in Salesforce or
something, so
you could call somebody from a tab.
That's probably not making it into
the HTML, [LAUGH] finals back,
but it's interesting to think about
what is a tab and what is not.
And then even we've gotten some feedback,
maybe there's tabs for a whole page,
for a whole application.
And maybe there's tabs for inside the
content, maybe those need to be different
tabs from an accessibility in
aural announcing standpoint.
So, lots to think about,
again the stuff's slow, doesn't move fast,
but it's fun to play with.
And actually the spicy-sections
has been a really great tool for
discussing web standards or
potential web standards.
Just because it's a prototype,
and everyone's probably
had that experience at work
where you just show the code or
show it living in code and
suddenly people's opinions change.
Some people don't react until you see
it and then they're like, wait, wait,
we have to stop this.
Or they're like, wait, this is good, this
is bad, let's do this, let's tweak this.
And so,
it's been a really good talking point, and
that was all kinda started
through generic-components.
Which I should mention, they're all coded
to this WAI-ARIA Authoring Practices,
sort of, I guess, tutorial guide.
You wouldn't know this but
[LAUGH] this page on the Internet is
basically the the holy grail for
telling you how to code something and
what the expectations are of that unit or
a menu button,
radio group, what it is,
what it isn't, tabs.
This page should be at
the front of the Internet,
[LAUGH] the front of the guidebook
you get when you get a new job.
But yeah, so
that's a very handy little library.
Again, your mileage may vary,
maybe you want this, maybe you don't, but
this is just a starting point.